# Off-boarding

## Overview

### Purpose

Describe the steps and responsibilities required to off-board a user from the Hunt Cloud environment.

### Scope

This guide covers files cleaning, archiving, transferring access right.

### Audience

Supervisors, lab leaders, lab coordinators, and leaving users.

### Responsibilities

- **Supervisor / Lab leader:** ensure the leaving user is introduced to this document, and assign a mentor _(if the supervisor is not capable of being the mentor)_.

  > By default the mentor should be the supervisor.

- **Lab leader:** make sure the mentor initiated the off-boarding process, approve access extension.

- **Lab coordinator:** offer help, and get files access rights.

  > Access right is important specifically for the finished projects/files to be archived.

- **Leaving user:** read, execute, and follow the procedure below.

## Checklist For Supervisors/Mentors

1. Notify the employee of the off-boarding procedure **2 months** before the contract end date.

2. Send them a link to this document to read and follow the [Procedure For Leaving Users](#procedure-for-leaving-users).

3. Contact the Lab leader to send an order to HUNT Cloud Team completely delete the user **3 months** after they leave, and make sure it is done.

   - Access can be extended for **3 additional months** a time, if deemed necessary.

   - The access extension must be approved forehand (by email) by the lab leader.

## Procedure For Leaving Users

1. Review all data/files and project materials associated with you.

2. Sort data into the following groups:

   - **Finished projects**

     > These are projects that you, and any collaborators, have fully completed. The work is finalized, publications or results have been produced, and no further development is expected. However, the data or outputs may still be needed later (e.g., datasets supporting a published paper or essential project code or files).

   - **Discontinued projects**

     > These are projects that were started but will not be continued now or in the future, either by you or your collaborators. The work remains incomplete, and no follow-up activity is planned.

   - **Ongoing projects**

     > These are projects that are still in active progress. Work will continue after your departure, either by you (if applicable) or by other team members/collaborators.

3. For **Finished project** data:

   - Delete unnecessary files or data (e.g. data can be regenerated by running pre-processing code).

   - Remove any dedicated conda environment for this project.

   - Make a folder with clear name, under `/mnt/archive/finishedWork` and move all the related files and data there.

   - Organize the files and data into structured folders with clear understandable names.

   - **Label the folders which has sensitive data**.

   - Make a `ReadMe` file for the project describing what is the project, who worked on it, when it was conducted, when it was finished, and if published link to the publication. Moreover, list there which files are sensitive and which are not and why.

   - Transfer the access rights of the project files to the lab coordinator.

     > Contact lab coordinator to help doing this.

4. For **Discontinued project** data:

   - Delete all its related files and data.

   - Remove any dedicated conda environment for this project.

5. For **Ongoing project** data:

   - Carefully delete unnecessary files or data (e.g., redundant data, multiple copies of same file/dat).

   - Organize the files and data into structured folders with clear understandable names.

   - Transfer the access rights for the project files to your collaborators, supervisor, or lab coordinator (In this order, or based on the arrangements you make).

     > Contact lab coordinator to help doing this.

6. If you have data or files on node labs:

   - Fully transfer them to the main lab, and don't keep any of your files there, unless if it is categorized as **Ongoing project**, and then treat them as explained previously.

   - If you have Docker containers and images, delete them, unless if it is categorized as **Ongoing project**.

   - Remove any of your user-specific installed software or environments.

7. Ensure that all cleaned and categorized data is properly stored and documented according to applicable guidelines.

8. Make sure that your user paths `/mnt/work/users/username` and `/home/username` are empty from any folder or files, unless if you got cloud access extension and planning to work on them during the extension period.

9. Remove any of your user-specific installed software.

10. Notify the lab leader, lab coordinator, your supervisor, and your mentor that you conducted this off-boarding procedure.
